We are going to get the answers to the
external analysis test.
Who is the author of the five forces?
Well, I hope you know this.
It is Michael Porter.
The five forces are a
tool that serves us for what?
It is used to measure the
profitability of a sector.
According to Porter, there is one force
that is central and is a consequence
of the other four.
Well, since the central force
is competitive rivalry and
the rest of forces, the threats
of substitute products, of new
competitors, the power of
suppliers and the power of
buyers, what they have is an
impact on competitive rivalry.
Let’s think about the food
distribution sector.
Here is the supply chain.
We will look at the power of the suppliers.
We put ourselves in the situation
of a food distributor, of a supermarket,
for example.
What is the power of suppliers?
Does it affect the profitability
of the sector negatively
or positively?
It affects in a positive way.
Why is?
Because you have hundreds or thousands
of providers that are much smaller
than you, that depend on you
and therefore you are in
a dominant position over them.
That allows you to tighten and, after
all, what impacts is in a positive
way on profitability.
But now we will put ourselves from the
producer’s point of view rather than
the distributor’s.
And here the situation is the opposite.
The profits are very low.
They are so low because of what?
Because their customers,
i.e. distributors, supermarkets
have a lot of power over
them.
Because they are more concentrated,
they are actually more concentrated,
there are thousands of producers
and dozens or hundreds of
distributors.
And usually, also because in the
sector of the producers of raw
materials or of this type of products,
the offers are very commoditized,
that is, they are all very similar,
except the large brands, the
very recognized brands, well,
because they have more
differentiated proposals.
Thus, all three are correct.
The barrier, what do you do?
Increase or decrease competitive warfare.
What they do is increase
it, because companies that
are within the sector cannot
get out and are forced
to compete harder.
The entrance barriers, what do they do?
Increase or decrease competitive warfare.
They are diminishing it because
the companies that are inside
benefit from those barriers or
those advantages and are
not forced to compete so cruelly.
Entrance barriers increase
or decrease profitability.
Clearly, entry barriers
increase the profitability
of a sector.
In the comforted sectors, is the
competitive war greater or lesser?
If all the proposals
are very similar, the competitive
war is greater.
There are more price wars, etc.
In sectors where there are high costs
of change, what are they generating?
High entry barriers or low
entry barriers?
High entrance barriers.
Businesses in the sector
benefit from high entry
barriers.
If the customer sector, that is,
if the sector you are selling
to is very concentrated,
that is, there are few companies
that have a large share of
the market and are very powerful,
how does this affect profitability
in your sector?
In a positive or a negative way?
It clearly affects negatively.
When your customers are very
large, they are bigger than you and
they are very powerful, your customers
have a lot of power over you, so
they will tighten you on the
margins, decreases profitability.
Walmart is often cited as
an example of building entry
barriers, why?
It has always been an example
of economies of scale.
What is the main factor contributing
to the generation of entry
barriers for YouTube?
The investments that are needed
to put you at the level of YouTube,
regulatory protection or network
economies or the network effect
that has been generated after so many
years of having millions of users
and especially having millions
and millions and millions of videos
uploaded.
Well, because clearly the entry
barrier is due to the network
effect as well as in the rest of platforms.
And for a hotel company like Hilton,
what do you think is the
main barrier to entry?
The investment, regulatory
protection or network effect.
What is it that discourages
competition from new competitors
to compete with large hotel chains?
The huge investment
that is needed.
What is the second phase of the
life cycle?
of growth.
At what stage do competitors start to enter?
In the growth phase.
Encouraged by rising profitability
and why a growing market
tends to enter more competitors
in this phase.
In the first phase, in the introductory
phase, cash flows are usually
positive or negative.
Cash flows are
usually negative.
You have to invest in product
development, you have to
invest in customer capture,
etc.
At what stage of the life cycle
do companies start to benefit
from economies of scale that
allow them to decrease unit costs?
The growth of the economy is
usually in the maturity phase.
When companies stop growing,
they seek efficiency and benefit
from those economies.
In the growth phase, investment
in customer capture has a higher
return than in the maturity
phase.
Is this correct or not?
Yes, it is true.
Keep in mind that in the growth phase
there is still a lot of market,
there is still a lot of cake.
However, in the maturity phase,
the market no longer grows.
So you, to win customers, to
win market share, you have
to steal your competitors.
Therefore, investing in growing
in the growth phase is much
more profitable.
The fashion sector is very
concentrated due to large
groups such as Inditex, HEM, Megap,
etc.
They have a market share of
more than 50%.
Well, as we saw with NestorHub,
this is false.
Despite being very large companies
with billions of dollars
in turnover, their weight over
the total sector remains very low.
The fashion industry is still
a very poorly concentrated
sector.
We are seeing a growing trend
in almost all sectors.
to what?
Are the sectors increasingly fragmented
or are the sectors increasingly
concentrated?
We are seeing that almost
all sectors are concentrated.
It is increasingly necessary to be
bigger to be competitive.
What about the car manufacturers?
Is it concentrated or fragmented?
He is very concentrated.
It is in the hands of a few groups
that are very large and that
have a total market share.
The greater the differentiation or
atomization in a sector, the greater
the profitability.
In areas where the differentiation
is higher, the profitability
is higher.
I will explain quickly
why.
We will put ourselves in the opposite case.
In the sectors where they are
very commoditized, all competitors
have a very similar value
proposition.
They must compete in
price.
This makes the profitability
lower.
If, on the other hand, you
are very different or all competitors
are very different from each other,
and customers do what they do is
choose a company or another based
on their preference, this allows
companies not to have to
adjust to very low margins.
PEST is a tool that allows us to
analyze a series of factors
over which we do not have capacity
for action.
The correct answer is A.
And they are not factors related to the
sector, they are external, political,
economic, social and technological factors.
PEST refers to strategic,
economic or environmental
factors, clearly economic.
Changes in consumer habits
are taken into account in social
factors, correctly.